# Contributing to PluralKit

See the [PluralKit development documentation](./dev-docs/README.md) for details
on the structure of the code; how to run PluralKit locally; and other info!

## AI contributions

Contributions to PluralKit must not include content generated by large
language models (LLMs), or any other probabilistic tools - including, but not
limited to, ChatGPT; Claude; or GitHub Copilot. This applies for the PluralKit
codebase itself; all PluralKit documentation; pull request descriptions;
comments in issues or pull requests; and any other contributions to PluralKit.

Our reasoning is as follows:

- **LLM-generated submissions place a huge burden on the maintainers.**
  PluralKit is developed and maintained by a small group of people, for whom
  working on PK is a labour of love in their free time.
  The time we have available to review pull requests & other contributions is
  limited - and thus we depend on having contributors test the contributions
  they put forward before we review them; and having contributors willing and
  able to work with us in getting their contributions into a mergeable shape.
  This is fundamentally incompatible with the kind of drive-by contributions that
  LLM-generated code allows for - even though the generated code may look plausible,
  often the person submitting it has little to no understanding of the submitted
  code, and is unable to fix issues within it.

- **The copyright status of LLM-generated code is questionable.**
  Publicly available models are trained on copyrighted content, both accidentally
  and intentionally, and their output often includes that content verbatim.
  Since the legality of this is uncertain, these contributions may violate the
  licenses of the copyrighted source materials; and as the copyright status of
  LLM output is clarified in courts across the world, having LLM-generated code
  in the PluralKit codebase may even cause legal trouble for us as time goes on.

- **Current large language models are incredibly unethical.**
  Even when running LLMs on your own hardware, the models require a vast amount
  of electricity and water to train; a number of large commercial models are
  trained by heavily exploited workers in unacceptable working conditions; and
  LLMs are being used to undermine the labour of workers, and justify layoffs
  across numerous industries. These are harms that we want no part in perpetuating,
  even indirectly.

Although we can not stop you from using LLMs or other AI tools to research
the PluralKit codebase; assist in finding issues; or as a virtual rubber duck,
we strongly discourage doing so - not only for the reasons above, but because
LLMs are often completely (but *confidently*) wrong in what they'll tell you.

If you have questions about the PluralKit codebase; want to discuss a potential
solution to a problem you've found; or need help getting started with
contributing - we'd much rather you asked the maintainers than an LLM!
The `#internal-stuffs` channel in [our support Discord server](<https://discord.gg/PczBt78>)
is the best place to do so.

**We reserve the right to close & lock any pull request that does not meet the
standards of this policy; and remove any descriptions or comments that do not
meet the standards of this policy.**

### AI contribution policy acknowledgements

This policy is heavily inspired by, and partly derived from,
[the Servo project's AI contribution policy](<https://github.com/servo/book/blob/6f813c60e97441904362531402875d1d7a78fb59/src/contributing/getting-started.md#ai-contributions>).
